TITLE:
    Why Does Your Nose Get Stuffy One Nostril at a Time?
    为什么鼻子一次只塞一个鼻孔？

GOLDEN SENTENCE:
    It's believed that the cycle helps round out your sense of smell.

WORD:

    nostril     n.鼻孔
    aptly       adv.适当地；适宜地；巧妙地
    automate    adj.机械化的；自动化的
    autonomic   adj.自主的；自律的
    nasal       adj.鼻的，鼻音的； n.鼻骨，鼻音，鼻音字
    operate     v.运作，运转
    effectively adv.有效地
    clogged     adj.塞满的
    inflate     v.是充气（于轮胎、气球等）;（使）膨胀；（使）通货膨胀；（使）物价上涨；
    tissue      n.面巾纸，（动植物的）组织，纱布
    congestion  n.充血
    round       n.圆；轮回
    detect      v.检测
    slightly    adv.轻微地
    constant    持续不断的；始终如一的
    stream      n.小河，溪流，一股，一串；v.流（出），涌（出）；按能力分班（或分组）
    contaminant n.污染物
    unbearable  adj.无法忍受的
    Basically   adv.基本上
    properly    adv.适当地；正确地；恰当地；得体地；完全
    amplified   adj.放大了的
    onslaught   n.猛攻



PHRASE:
    get stuffy          堵住；塞住
    be automated by     被...自动化
    nasal cycle         鼻循环
    heart rate          心跳速率
    according to        根据
    clog up             堵塞
    in order to         为了
    round out           完成
    pick up             捡起来；收集起来
    be detected better with 被更好的发现
    give ... a break    使...休息一下
    a stream of         一股...                       a constant stream of    持续不断的一股...
    kill off            毁灭；消除；耗尽；去掉
    protect sb from sth
    onslaught of        ...的猛攻



PROPER NOUN:

    US National Library of Medicine  美国国家医学图书馆
    MentalFloss

TEXT:
    Through you may not pay attention to it unless you're sick, you're always breathing more heavily from one nostril than the other.

    During the day, the sides switch and the other nostril goes into 'work mode', but why?

    This process is automated by the aptly named autonomic nervous system, which is the same system that controls many things your body does all by itself such as digestion an heart rate.


    For your nose, this system controls your 'nasal cycle', so that each nostril operates effectively.

    The nasal cycle happens, according to the US National Library of Medicine, several times during the day, and is only brought to your attention if your nose is clogged up more than usual.

    In order to open one side of your nose and close the others, your body inflates tissue with blood.


    "increased blood flow causes congestion in one nostril for about 3 to 6 hours before switching to the other side. There is also increased congestion when one is lying down, which can be especially
noticeable when the head is turned to one side," Jennifer Shu reports for CNN.

    It's believed that this cycle helps round out your sense of small.

    As Matt Soniak reports for MentalFloss, some smells are better picked up by fast moving air through your nose, while others take more time and are detected better with slow-moving air.


    If one side of your nose is wide open and the other is slightly closed,you get all of the smells.

    *The process also gives each side of your nose a break,since a constant stream of heavily flowing air can dry it out and kill off the small hairs that protect you from foreign contaminants.

    *When you get sick, the whole process can become unbearable, because the one nostril that is effectively 'turned off' feels way, way more clogged than the other, Soniak says.
    当你生病的时候，这一进程将变得无法忍受，因为一个鼻孔“关闭”了有效的感觉方式,另外一个鼻孔就感觉越阻塞。


    Basically, the clogged-up feeling is just amplified by the cold.

    So the next time you feel like you're only breathing from one side of your nose.

    remember that it's a natural, automatic system working to keep you smelling properly,and to make sure your nose doesn't get dried out by a constant onslaught of dirty air.
